# Introduction

## Bioinformatics

Crossover between Computer Science and Molecular Biology.

1. Biological information can be studied with approaches typical of information theory (Computer Science)
2. Understanding Biology requires Computer Science (huge data)
3. Computer Science useful to Biology

DNA sequencing is a very slow process. Initially it was extremely costly. Traditional sequencing was very precise but slow and costly. With the event of genome sequencing there was a change (still costly). Sequencing grew faster then the Moore Law. (_100 genome project_). Animal genome sequencing (mammals or anything useful for food ecc. ecc.), bacteria genome sequencing (understand resistances ecc. ecc.).

* UniProtKB (_knowledge database_)
  * Swiss-Prot (_manually annotated and reviewed_)
  * TrEMBL (Transaltion of EMBL) (_automatically annotated and not reviewed_ =>may contain sequencing errors)

The number of entries in the database grows exponentially.

Basic Paradigm of molecular biology is the sequent:

* DNA => RNA => Protein

## Nucleotides

DNA and RNA can be seen as a "4 letter alphabet" = (A,C,T/U,G) called information storage

Phosphate + Sugar + Nitrogenous base

## Biological Sequences

How to turn a "4 letter alphabet" into a "20 letter alphabet" of the proteins?

You need triplets of nucleotides to encode a letter of the "protein alphabet"

RNA copies just a part of the whole DNA, just the one he needs to produce the protein needed

An RNA sequence is composed by one of the three "stop" codons

Proteins is where "things" become three-dimensional

## Ammino Acids: Proteins

* Carbon in the center
* Hydrogen to the left
* Acidic carboxyl group to the right
* R group to the bottom
* Amino group to the top

### Proteins

Sequence => Structure => Function (!?)

Where:

* Sequence = list of "letters"
* Structure = Three-dimensional structure
* Function = cavity of the structure (generated by the way it folds) is called the "active site", place where the "chemical magic" happens (adding or braking a chemical bond for example) (enzymes)

## In silico methods

Term for computational methods (opposed to in vitro ecc. ecc.)

Prediction on structures